README.md, before:

# LocAI

## Project Description and Motivation 
LocAI is a mobile app that helps users find places more naturally by allowing them to type queries in everyday language. Instead of relying on fixed filters, the app converts user input into structured Google Maps API parameters (such as place type, keyword, radius, or open status) and returns the most relevant results. The results are displayed as a simple list with key details like name, rating, and address, and users can open the selected place directly in the Google Maps app for directions.  

Firebase is used to store user favorites, search history, and preferences, making the experience more personal over time.  

## Team Members  
- **Ahmet Taha Kahya** – 32635  
- **Pelin Özçelik** – 30403  
- **Ecehan Kalkan** – 22628  
- **Can Demirtaş** – 32091  
- **Tuna Kubat** – 31198  

## App Structure
```
/assets
  /fonts
  /images
/lib
  /pages
     /home
       home_page.dart
     ...
  /state
     favorites_state.dart
  /utils
     colors.dart
     paddings.dart
     text_styles.dart
  /widgets
     custom_app_bar.dart
     place_card.dart
```

- **assets:** Includes the local images and custom fonts.

- **lib/pages:** Stores the files for all pages.

- **lib/state:** Manages the states that are accessed and updated by multiple pages.

- **lib/utils:** Includes utility classes that organize static data into separate files.

- **lib/widgets:** Stores the custom widgets. For an example, the place_card.dart file provides a way to reuse our custom card widget in multiple pages easily.


## Setup

### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd locai
```

### Install dependencies

```bash
flutter pub get
```

### Firebase Configuration (for running the app)

- Create a Firebase project

- Add Android and/or iOS apps

- Download and place:

  - google-services.json → android/app/

  - GoogleService-Info.plist → ios/Runner/

  - Enable Firebase Authentication

Firebase is not required to run tests. Tests use mock providers.

### Run the App

```bash
flutter run
```

## Testing

The project includes unit tests and widget tests to verify both business logic and user interface behavior. Tests are located inside the cs310-group/test folder.

### Run All Tests
```bash
flutter test
```

### Unit Tests

- AuthProvider initial state test

  - Verifies that the authentication provider starts in a correct default state.

  - Ensures isLoading is false and currentUser is null when the provider is first created.

### Widget Tests

- For both Sign In and Sign Up Page

  - Empty form validation: Ensures validation messages are displayed when the user attempts to sign up without filling in required fields (name, email, and password).

  - Invalid email validation: Verifies that an appropriate error message is shown when the user enters an invalid email format during sign up.

These tests ensure that user input validation works correctly and that authentication-related UI behavior is reliable.

## Known Limitations and Bugs

- Forgot password feature is not functional.
- The app depends on Google Maps API and Gemini API, and we have used free tiers throughout the development. However, the app may not function if the quota is exceeded.
- In home page, we have a sorting option for the listed results. The distance metric doesn't work for now, only the rating and most relevant options work.

Commit message:

docs: update README.md to add warning about api keys

README.md, after:

# LocAI

## Project Description and Motivation 
LocAI is a mobile app that helps users find places more naturally by allowing them to type queries in everyday language. Instead of relying on fixed filters, the app converts user input into structured Google Maps API parameters (such as place type, keyword, radius, or open status) and returns the most relevant results. The results are displayed as a simple list with key details like name, rating, and address, and users can open the selected place directly in the Google Maps app for directions.  

Firebase is used to store user favorites, search history, and preferences, making the experience more personal over time.  

## Team Members  
- **Ahmet Taha Kahya** – 32635  
- **Pelin Özçelik** – 30403  
- **Ecehan Kalkan** – 22628  
- **Can Demirtaş** – 32091  
- **Tuna Kubat** – 31198  

## App Structure
```
/assets
  /fonts
  /images
/lib
  /pages
     /home
       home_page.dart
     ...
  /state
     favorites_state.dart
  /utils
     colors.dart
     paddings.dart
     text_styles.dart
  /widgets
     custom_app_bar.dart
     place_card.dart
```

- **assets:** Includes the local images and custom fonts.

- **lib/pages:** Stores the files for all pages.

- **lib/state:** Manages the states that are accessed and updated by multiple pages.

- **lib/utils:** Includes utility classes that organize static data into separate files.

- **lib/widgets:** Stores the custom widgets. For an example, the place_card.dart file provides a way to reuse our custom card widget in multiple pages easily.


## Setup

### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd locai
```

### Install dependencies

```bash
flutter pub get
```

### Warning: About API Keys

This app depends on Google Maps API and Gemini API. Because api keys gets automatically invalidated by google once they are pushed to the repository, you must generate and enter your own API key to test this application. Please enter your api key in the following files:

-  services/ai_summary_service.dart (Gemini)
-  services/place_photo_service.dart (Google Maps)
-  services/places_text_search_service.dart (Google Maps)
-  services/place_reviews_service.dart (Google Maps)

### Firebase Configuration (for running the app)

- Create a Firebase project

- Add Android and/or iOS apps

- Download and place:

  - google-services.json → android/app/

  - GoogleService-Info.plist → ios/Runner/

  - Enable Firebase Authentication

Firebase is not required to run tests. Tests use mock providers.

### Run the App

```bash
flutter run
```

## Testing

The project includes unit tests and widget tests to verify both business logic and user interface behavior. Tests are located inside the cs310-group/test folder.

### Run All Tests
```bash
flutter test
```

### Unit Tests

- AuthProvider initial state test

  - Verifies that the authentication provider starts in a correct default state.

  - Ensures isLoading is false and currentUser is null when the provider is first created.

### Widget Tests

- For both Sign In and Sign Up Page

  - Empty form validation: Ensures validation messages are displayed when the user attempts to sign up without filling in required fields (name, email, and password).

  - Invalid email validation: Verifies that an appropriate error message is shown when the user enters an invalid email format during sign up.

These tests ensure that user input validation works correctly and that authentication-related UI behavior is reliable.

## Known Limitations and Bugs

- Forgot password feature is not functional.
- The app depends on Google Maps API and Gemini API, and we have used free tiers throughout the development. However, the app may not function if the quota is exceeded.
- In home page, we have a sorting option for the listed results. The distance metric doesn't work for now, only the rating and most relevant options work.
